# Konkan Design System Tokens

This is a monorepo containing Konkan Design System tokens. It has two goals:

1. Sync tokens generated by Figma Tokens Studio to Supernova platform
2. Store tokens in universal JSON format for multiple frontend environments, primary SwiftUI and Kotlin (Jetpack Compose).

## Using JSON tokens

If you are developing an application and want to consume Konkan Design Tokens, the best place to start is the `/dist` directory which contains all our tokens. Token structure is documented in our RFCs, which are published under Discussions.

### Currently available tokens:
- [Colours](https://github.com/matthewmorek/konkan-design-system/discussions/61) [live]
- [Typography](https://github.com/matthewmorek/konkan-design-system/discussions/51) [proposed]
- [Spacing](https://github.com/matthewmorek/konkan-design-system/discussions/52) [proposed]

## Maintainance
If you want to contribute to the maintenance of this package, below you'll find some tips on what it does and where to start.

### Requirements

- Node.js 18+
- Node.js package manager (Yarn, npm, pnpm, etc)
- Familiarity with [Style Dictionary](https://amzn.github.io/style-dictionary/#/)
- Familiarity with [Tokens Studio](https://docs.tokens.studio/transforming/style-dictionary)

### Syncing tokens to Supernova
We currently sync our tokens to Supernova for building rich documentation.

1. Follow instructions in [official Supernova guide](https://github.com/Supernova-Studio/cli/blob/main/docs/figma-tokens-sync.md) to get your API key and design system ID.
2. Run `npm install` or `yarn install` to grab all required dependencies.
3. Run the following command using obtained key and workspace id.

```sh
$ supernova sync-tokens \
  --apiKey="$SUPERNOVA_API_KEY" \
  --designSystemId="$SUPERNOWA_DS_ID" \
  --tokenDirPath "./design-tokens" \
  --configFilePath "./supernova.settings.staging.json"
```

If you did everything correctly, you should see a message like this in your terminal, and the tokens should be up-to-date in Supernova.

```
Tokens synchronized
```

### Building JSON tokens

We currently run a GitHub Action which automatically builds and commits built JSON tokens to each PR branch before each merge. This is an automated check to ensure consistency of output between what's in Tokens Studio (Figma) and what's available for engineering teams. If you want to build tokens locally, follow these steps:

1. Install required dependencies with your package manager (npm, pnpm, yarn, etc)
2. Run build command `npm run build:tokens`
3. You can manually commit any changes.

> [!NOTE] 
> The automated build process on CI will skip its own commit if the build doesn't produce any differences in JSON code.
